README.md, before:

# theatre-db-demo

This is a single-page Flask app to demo a fully interactive theatre database with stored procedures, triggers, and functions. All actions happen on `index.html`, with a live MySQL database hosted via Railway.

---

## ACCESS GUIDE (For Teammates/Reviewers)

Visit the Live App: [theatre-db-demo-production.up.railway.app](https://theatre-db-demo-production.up.railway.app/)

---

## Live Deployment (Railway + MySQL)
### What’s hosted:
- Flask app (`app.py`) → deployed on [Railway](https://railway.app)
- MySQL database → provisioned via Railway MySQL plugin
- Source code → hosted on GitHub

| What            | Tool                      |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| Backend         | Flask (`app.py`)          |
| Frontend        | HTML/JS (`index.html`)    |
| Database        | MySQL (via Railway plugin)|
| Hosting         | Railway (GitHub-linked)   |
| Schema Import   | Railway CLI               |

---

## FULL SETUP GUIDE (For Project Owner)
### Required Downloads
- [Python 3.10+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- [Node.js (for Railway CLI)](https://nodejs.org/)
- [MySQL Server (Windows Installer)](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/installer/)
During MySQL install, select **MySQL Server** and **MySQL Shell** components only (Workbench optional).

---
### Instructions
1. Clone this repository, Run command: git clone https://github.com/yourusername/theatre-db-demo.git
2. Cd to project, Run command: cd theatre-db-demo

Note: 2 and 3 are optional but recommended.
3. Run command: python -m venv venv 
4. Run command: venv\Scripts\activate

5. Run command: pip install -r requirements.txt 

6. Deploy Railway: 
    a) Go to [https://railway.app](https://railway.app)
    b) Create a new project and deploy it from your GitHub repo (main.py should be in project root folder)
    c) Set the start command in repo settings on railway: python main.py
    d) In the same settings you can generate URL or supply your own domain
    e) Add a **MySQL Plugin** to the project
    f) Go to your Flask service in Railway → `Variables` and add:
        ```
        MYSQLHOST = ${mysql.MYSQLHOST}
        MYSQLUSER = ${mysql.MYSQLUSER}
        MYSQLPASSWORD = ${mysql.MYSQLPASSWORD}
        MYSQLDATABASE = ${mysql.MYSQLDATABASE}
        MYSQLPORT = ${mysql.MYSQLPORT}
        ``` 
    g) Deploy the project

7. Load the Database Schema (via Railway CLI):
    a) Run command in bash not venv: npm install -g @railway/cli (if not already installed)
    b) Run command in bash: railway login
    c) Run command in bash: railway link
    d) Run command in bash: railway connect mysql
     — leave this terminal open!

8. Run the schema file:
    - Run command in bash: mysql -h nozomi.proxy.rlwy.net -u root -p **** --port 43504 --protocol=TCP railway  
    - Password has been hidden, discord spencer if you need it or have him update the schema

---

## Updating the Schema
If you want to **wipe and rebuild** the DB from `theatre.sql`:

1. Follow step 7 and 8 from above.

Commit message:

Update ReadMe and theatre.sql
Updated ReadMe to be accurate and consistent with Full Stack Dev.

Commented out the calculated field in production table. (disallowed function) This error should be fixed.

README.md, after:

# theatre-db-demo

This is a single-page Flask app to demo a fully interactive theatre database with stored procedures, triggers, and functions. All actions happen on `index.html`, with a live MySQL database hosted via Railway.

---

## ACCESS GUIDE (For Teammates/Reviewers)

Visit the Live App: [theatre-db-demo-production.up.railway.app](https://theatre-db-demo-production.up.railway.app/)

---

## Live Deployment (Railway + MySQL)
### What’s hosted:
- Flask app (`app.py`) → deployed on [Railway](https://railway.app)
- MySQL database → provisioned via Railway MySQL plugin
- Source code → hosted on GitHub

| What            | Tool                      |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| Backend         | Flask (`app.py`)          |
| Frontend        | HTML/JS (`index.html`)    |
| Database        | MySQL (via Railway plugin)|
| Hosting         | Railway (GitHub-linked)   |
| Schema Import   | Railway CLI               |

---

## FULL SETUP GUIDE (For Project Owner)
### Required Downloads
- [Python 3.10+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- [Node.js (for Railway CLI)](https://nodejs.org/)
- [MySQL Server (Windows Installer)](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/installer/)
During MySQL install, select **MySQL Server**, **MySQL Shell**, **MySQL Workbench**.

---
### Instructions

If you just want to edit the code follow steps 1-5, if you are deploying a new project follow step 6,
if you are updating the schema follow steps 7-10.

1. Clone this repository, Run command: git clone https://github.com/yourusername/theatre-db-demo.git
2. Cd to project, Run command: cd theatre-db-demo

Note: 2 and 3 are optional but recommended.
3. Run command: python -m venv venv 
4. Run command: venv\Scripts\activate

5. Run command: pip install -r requirements.txt 

6. Deploy Railway: 
    a) Go to [https://railway.app](https://railway.app)
    b) Create a new project and deploy it from your GitHub repo (main.py should be in project root folder)
    c) Set the start command in repo settings on railway: python main.py
    d) In the same settings you can generate URL or supply your own domain
    e) Add a **MySQL Plugin** to the project
    f) Go to your Flask service in Railway → `Variables` and add:
        ```
        MYSQLHOST = ${mysql.MYSQLHOST}
        MYSQLUSER = ${mysql.MYSQLUSER}
        MYSQLPASSWORD = ${mysql.MYSQLPASSWORD}
        MYSQLDATABASE = ${mysql.MYSQLDATABASE}
        MYSQLPORT = ${mysql.MYSQLPORT}
        ``` 
    g) Deploy the project

7. Open MySQL Workbench, and connect to the db
    - Connection Name: Railway
    - Host name: metro.proxy.rlwy.net
    - Port: 36017
    - Username: root
    - Password: ********* (ask spencer for password or get him to update schema)

8. Open Railway connection and import theatre.sql
9. Open schemas tab (bottom left) and right click on railway db, select 'Set as Default Schema'
10. Shift + Ctrl + Enter to run sql file, this will import everything into the hosted db

---

## Updating the Schema
If you want to **wipe and rebuild** the DB from `theatre.sql`:

1. Follow steps 7-10 from above.
